---
description: Get started with Directus Auth. Learn how to register, login, create users, and make authenticated requests.
---

# Quickstart

This guide will cover registering users, logging in, and making an authenticated request.

:partial{content="quickstart-making-calls"}

## Before You Start

You will need a Directus project.

:directus-cloud

Create a `posts` collection with at least a `title` and `content` field. Follow the [data modeling quickstart](/data-modeling/quickstart) to learn more.

## Creating an Access Policy

[[TODO: CREATE POLICY, GRAB ID]]

## Allowing Limited Public Registration

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF ALLOWED PERMISSIONS -->

Requests without user authentication are 'public'. Public users must be able to register, but with specific limitations around what they can set.

In the access control settings find the `directus_users` collection (under **System Collections**). Click :icon{name="material-symbols:block"} in the create permission column and click **Use Custom**.

- In Field Permissions, deselect all fields except for `email` and `password`. Public users will not be able to set any other field values.
- In Field Presets, set... [[TODO: ACCESS POLICY]]. Any new users created by public users will receive this access policy.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/auth/access-control"}
Read more about access control in Directus Auth.
::

## Creating a User

There are no required fields on a user by default, although you may choose to require values for any system or user-created fields. To log in with an `email` and `password` they must be set on the user item.

Open your terminal and run the following command to create a user with an `email` and `password`.

```bash [Terminal]
curl \
--request POST \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{ "email": "hello@example.com", "password": "d1r3ctu5" }' \
--url 'https://directus.example.com/users'
```

Go to the user directory by clicking :icon{name="user-directory"} in the module bar and you should see a new user has been created. You can provide any additional fields when creating a user and they will be added to the user item.

## Logging In

To log in and get an access token, run the following command.

```bash [Terminal]
curl \
--request POST \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{ "email": "hello@example.com", "password": "d1r3ctu5" }' \
--url 'https://directus.example.com/auth/login'
```

## Authenticating Requests

You can use the access token while making requests. If your token has expired, you must refresh it.

```bash [Terminal]
curl \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN' \
--url 'https://directus.example.com/items/posts'
```

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/auth/access-tokens"}
Read more about refreshing tokens.
::

## Next Steps

Read more about [access tokens](/auth/access-tokens), [access control](/auth/access-control), and then refer to the Users API reference to manage user accounts.

::callout{type="api-reference" url="/api-reference/users"}
Explore the Users API Reference.
::
