---
description: Learn how to authenticate requests & explore standard, session, and static token types.
---

# Access Tokens

Access tokens are used to authenticate requests to Directus. They are scoped to users, and have the same permissions that the associated user does.

## Token Types

### Standard Tokens

Standard tokens are returned when a user logs in and expire after a short period. Static tokens are provided with an expiry time and a refresh token.

Refresh tokens have a much longer expiry time, and can be used to generate a new standard token.

The token should be stored and reused by your application, checking if it has expired before each use and refreshing if required. Logging out will invalidate the refresh token, stopping a user from authenticating without first logging in again.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/auth/email-login"}
Read more about logging in, refreshing tokens, and logging out.
::

### Session Tokens

Session tokens are returned when a user logs in, and combine both an access and refresh token in a single token. They can only be refreshed before they expire, and must be stored a cookie.

### Static Tokens

<!-- TODO: Add image of data studio static token generation pre-save. -->

Each user can have one static token that does not expire. This can be generated in the Data Studio within the user page. It is stored in plaintext in the `directus_users` collection, and can be manually set via the Data Studio or the [Users API](/api-reference/users).

## Storing Tokens

### JSON

The default response to any Directus API request is via a JSON payload. It is your responsibility to handle storage and usage of the token.

:partial{content="snippet-auth-token"}

### Cookies

A cookie is a method of storing data in the browser. When using the login endpoint, you may set the `mode` to `session` and the Directus response will contain specific headers and the browser will automatically create a `directus_session_token` cookie on your behalf.

When a request is made to the same Directus domain, the cookie will be automatically included in the request until it expires or is overwritten. As a `httpOnly` cookie, client-side JavaScript is unable to access it.

## Making Requests

To perform operations that are now available to the public role, a valid token must be included in the request.

::tabs
	::tab{label="Authorization Header"}
	Add the following header: `Authorization: Bearer <token>`
	::

	::tab{label="Session Cookies"}
	You do not need to set anything. The `directus_session_token` is used automatically.
	::

	::tab{label="Query Parameter"}
	Append the following query parameter: `?access_token=<token>`

		::callout{type="info" title="Exercise caution when using query parameters for authentication"}
		Using a query parameter for authentication can lead to it being revealed or logged. If possible, use another method.
		::

	::
::
