---
description: This guide will cover creating a collection in Directus via the Data Studio, creating fields, and configurng relationships.
---

# Quickstart

This guide will cover creating a collection in Directus via the Data Studio, creating fields, and configuring relationships.

:directus-cloud

## Creating a Collection

Log into the Directus Data Studio as an administrator. If this is a brand-new project, you will be presented with the option to create your first collection. Otherwise, go to the settings module and create a new collection from the Data Model page.

Set the name of this collection to be `posts`, leaving all other options in both the collection setup and optional field pages as their defaults. You now have a new collection with only a primary key.

<!-- TODO: Screenshot of brand new, default collection settings page with only an ID -->

## Creating Fields

Your collection only has a primary key. From your new `posts` collection configuration page, click the **Create Field** button and select the Input interface. Set the key to `title` and leave all other options as their defaults.

Create another new field with a What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) interface. Set the key to `content`.

## Configuring a Relationship

Create a new collection called `authors`. In the new collection, create a new field with an Input interface and set the key to `name`.

Go to the `posts` collection configuration and create a new field with the Many to One interface and set the key to `author`. Set the related collection to `authors` and configure the Display Template to show just the author's name by clicking :icon{name="material-symbols:add-box-outline"} and selecting the `name` field. You have now successfully configured a relationship between the two tables.

In the module bar, click :icon{name="content-module"} to go to the content module. Enter your `authors` collection and create 2 authors with the names `Ben Haynes` and `Rijk van Zanten`.

Enter the `posts` collection and create two posts, selecting an author from the Many to One interface.

<!-- TODO: Screenshot of full editor page with fake post written (from demo data repo) and the autor dropdown expanded. -->

<!-- TODO: Screenshot of both collection setting pages side by side. -->

## Next Steps

Read more about configuring [collections](/data-modeling/collections), [fields](/data-modeling/fields), and [relationships](/data-modeling/reationships). See all available [interfaces](/data-modeling/interfaces) in Directus. Access your new collections via API or SDK using :product-link{product="connect"}.
