---
description: Directus fields let you define how your data is stored and displayed. Learn about creating fields, data types, interfaces, validations, relationships, and more. Discover how to configure fields to perfectly suit your data modeling needs in Directus.
---

# Fields

Fields are database fields with additional metadata and configuration used by Directus, such as how data is displayed, validations, and interfaces.

## Creating Fields

When creating a new field, you must first select an [interface](/data-modeling/interfaces) and provide some basic configuration. Basic configuration will depend on the interface selected, but all fields have some common characteristics.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - FIELD CREATION, INPUT SELECTED AND DETAIL EXPANDED WITH SAMPLE DATA -->

The **interface** describes how users will create and edit data, as well as how it is displayed in :product-link{product="editor"}. There are many kinds of built-in interface, such as a text input, date selector, map, and a set of relationship interfaces. More interfaces can be built as

The **key** is the unique name for a field within a collection. This value is used in both the Data Studio and via API. Within the Data Studio, the key is parsed through our title formatter to improve readability.

The **type** defines the underlying data type configured in the database. When creating fields, the available types will correspond to the interface selected.

::callout{type="warning" title="Field names and types are immutable"}
The field key and type cannot be modified after collection creation, which includes casing. However, you can override how the key is displayed in the Data Studio with field name translations.
::

## Configuring Fields

There are a number of advanced configuration options available for fields. Some must be configured at the time of creation, while others can be edited after creation.

### Schema

This section defines the database column settings for the field. This includes the key, type, length (if applicable), default value, whether the field is nullable, and whether values must be unique in the collection.

### Field

This section sets details for the interface, which is displayed in the editor. This includes whether the field is read-only or requires a value to be provided when an item is created.

This section also allows for a note - which is displayed in the editor and provides additional context or help to the user, and field name translations, which changes the label of this field in the editor based on the selected language in the Data Studio.

### Interface

This section describes how the user will create, edit, and view data in the editor, and are effectively different form inputs. Each interface will have its own configuration options.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/data-modeling/interfaces"}
See all available interfaces in Directus.
::

### Display

This section describes how induvidual field values will be displayed throughout the Data Studio. You can always choose to display the raw value, but you can display a formatted value instead. Each interface will have its own display options.

Conditional styles allow for different colors, icons, and text values to be used when the field data meets configured criteria.

### Validation

This section allows for the configuration of tules to determine valid user input. If validation fails, you can also use this configuration section to write custom messages.

These validations apply to data added via Directus and are not database-level validations.

### Conditions

This section alters the current field's configuration based on the values of other fields in the item. Conditional configuration include whether a field is read-only, hidden, or required, along with any editable interface-specific configuration.

::callout{type="info" title="Conditionally Show Fields"}
To show a field conditionally, set hidden to `true` in the field settings. Then, create a condition with a rule checking the value of another field. The condition should set hidden to `false`.
::

### Relationships & Translations

This section will only appear when the field is relational, and describes the relationship between this field and other collections. Each relationship type will be shown differently, and where there is a junction collection you will be given the option to add a sort field on the collection.

Relational triggers configure what will happen to the relational field data when related values are deselected or deleted. This includes setting values to `null`, their default, or cascading/preventing the deletion.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/data-modeling/relationships"}
See all available relationship types in Directus.
::

### Field Width

Each field can be configured to be half or full width in the editor. Two half-width fields can be placed next to each other. Additionally, a field can be configured to use up the full-width of the editor, expanding beyond the usual full-width container.

Field width is not in the field configuration, but can be set by clicking on :icon{name="material-symbols:more-vert"} in the collection data model page.

## System Collection Fields

System collections have a number of default fields that cannot be configured as they are required for Directus to operate. However, additional fields can be added to any system collection.

## Existing Database Fields

When Directus is connected to an existing database, fields will be automatically made available in Direcus. You can then fully configure it as desired within the Data Studio
