---
description: Leverage Directus relationships to create powerful data connections. Explore Many to One, One to Many, Many to Many, and Many to Any relationships, along with Translations for multilingual content management.
---

# Relationships

Directus supports all standard relationship types, as well as a few more of its own compound types, which exist to make some common configurations easier.

## Many to One (M2O)

<!-- TODO: remake https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/relationships/relations-20221026/m2o-20221026A.webp -->

In a M2O relationship, multiple items from the one collection are linked to one item in a different collection. One field is added to the 'many' collection referencing the primary key of the 'one' collection.

<!-- TODO: same iamge as interfaces/many to one https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/fields/interfaces-20230308/interface-m2o.webp -->

In :product-link{product="editor"}, having a M2O field does not automatically provide navigation to the related collection's items. To achieve this, the related collection requires a One to Many field to be set up.

::callout{type="info" title="M2O Examples"}
- Given `cities` and `countries` collections, many cities would exist to one country.
- Given `orders` and `customers`, many orders would exist to one customer.
- Given `books` and `pubilshers`, many books would exist to one publisher.
::

## One to Many (O2M)

<!-- TODO: remake https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/relationships/relations-20221026/o2m-20221026A.webp -->

In a O2M relationship, one item from a collection is linked to multiple items in a different collection.

<!-- TODO: same image as interfaces/one to many https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/fields/interfaces-20230308/interface-o2m.webp -->

Creating a O2M interface on the 'many' side of a M2O relationship creates an `Alias` field, which lets us access related items. This does not create a new database column as the O2M field is purely virtual. It creates an interface within the :product-link{product="editor"} to access items from an O2M perspective.

## Many to Many (M2M)

<!-- TODO: remake https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/relationships/relationships-20220805/m2m-20220805A.webp -->

In a M2M relationship, an additional collection is created known as the junction collection. The junction collection stores the primary keys from two related collections, allowing for any number of items to be related between two collections.

You can also have a self-referencing M2M relationship that connects items in the same collection.

::callout{type="info" title="Self-Referencing M2M Examples"}
- Given an `articles` collection, you could configure related articles.
- Given a `users` collection, you could configure a friends list.
- Given `papers`, you could configure citations.
::

One example is "Related Articles", where each article relates to many other articles.

## Many to Any (M2A)

<!-- TODO: remake https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/relationships/relationships-20220805/m2a-20220805A.webp -->

In a M2A relationship, one collection can be related to any item in any collection. This is sometimes known as a matrix field or replicator.

When you configure a M2A in Directus, a M2A `Alias` field is created as well as a junction collection. The junction collection in a M2A relationship also stores the collection name for related collections.

::callout{type="tutorials" url="/tutorials/reusable-page-components"}
Read our tutorial on using a Builder (M2A) to create reusable page components.
::

## Translations

<!-- TODO: remake https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/data-model/relationships/relationships-20220805/o2m-translations-20220805A.webp -->

When you create a Translations interface in Directus, a translations O2M `Alias` field is created, as well as a `languages` collection and a junction collection between your main collection and `languages`. All translated text is stored in the junction collection.
