---
description:
---

# Collection Explorer

The content module allows users to browse, filter, and search for items held in collections. When users navigate into viewing single items, they use :product-link{product="editor"}. Each page contains data from a single collection, but can display related fields for each item.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF EXPLORE -->

## Filtering Items

## Layouts

## Batch Editing

## Layout Presets

## Access Control

<!--

Each Collection Page displays all Items in its Collection and comes with highly configurable Layouts for browsing, visualizing, and managing Items. The Page Header includes key action buttons for sorting, searching, filtering, creating, editing, archiving, and deleting multiple Items. To learn more, see our guide on the Collection Page.

The Content Module consists of :product-link{product="explore"}, where multiple items from a collection are displayed, and :product-link{product="editor"}, where single items can be displayed and edited.

A powerful, yet extensible, way to explore your database. Suitable for everyone in your organization with a robust permissions system.

Filters & Search: Filter your data with our powerful query builder across just one or related collections.

Layouts: Layouts are customized displays for viewing and interacting with the Items in a Collection. This makes working with specific types of data models, such as map locations or calendar events, a more human-friendly experience.

Save layout presets: Save your data layouts, filters, and sorts in presets and make them available to specific users or roles.
