---
title: Quickstart
description: This guide will cover connecting to Directus via WebSockets on the web, subscribing to changes, and creating new items over the connection.
---

# Realtime Quickstart

Instead of needing to make a request to see if data has changed, your application can receive updates in realtime over a persistent connection with Directus. All subscriptions and actions over a realtime connection use the permissions of the authenticated user, or public permissions if not authenticated.

This guide will cover getting started with :product-link{product="realtime"} by connecting to Directus with the Directus SDK on the web, subscribing to changes, and creating new items.

<!-- TODO: Link to GraphQL & raw WS tutorials -->

## Before You Start

You will need a Directus project.

:directus-cloud

Create a `messages` collection with a `date_created` field enabled on collection creation. Add `text` and `user` text fields. Follow the [data modeling quickstart](/data-modeling/quickstart) to learn more.

Add an [access policy](/auth/access-control) called **Public Posts** to your user in the Data Studio. Within it, create a new permission to allow the `read` and `create` actions on the `messages` collection.

In the Data Studio, create a [static token](/auth/tokens-cookies) for your user, copy it, and save your user profile.

## Enable Realtime

Directus Realtime is disabled by default on self-hosted projects. Set the `WEBSOCKETS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. If you use Directus Cloud to host your project, you do not need to manually enable Realtime.

## Connect via Directus Realtime

Create an `index.html` file, import the Directus SDK from a CDN, create a client with the `realtime` composable, and connect. Be sure to replace your Directus project URL and access token.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
	<body>
		<script>
			import { createDirectus, staticToken, realtime } from 'https://www.unpkg.com/@directus/sdk/dist/index.js';

			const directus = createDirectus('https://example.directus.app')
				.with(staticToken('your_access_token'))
				.with(realtime());

			await directus.connect();
		</script>
	</body>
</html>
```

## Subscribe to Changes

After subscribing to collections over your connection, you will receive new messages whenever items in the collection are created, updated, or deleted.

At the bottom of your `<script>`, create a new subscripion:

```js
const { subscription } = await directus.subscribe('messages', {
	event: 'create',
	query: { fields: ['user', 'text'] },
});

for await (const item of subscription) {
	console.log(item);
}
```

Your page will log on the console every time an item is created in the `messages` collection.

## Create an Item

You can also perform actions over an open Realtime connection. Create a new function that sends a message over the connection to create an item:

```js
function createItem(text, user) {
	directus.sendMessage({
		type: 'items',
		collection: 'messages',
		action: 'create',
		data: { text, user },
	});
}
```

Open your browser and create items by using your new function directly in the console:

```js
createItem('Hello World!', 'Ben');
createItem('Hello Universe!', 'Rijk');
createItem('Hello Everyone Everywhere All At Once!', 'Kevin');
```

## Log Messages

Use the `directus.onWebSocket()` method to listen for events that happen to the WebSocket collection.

```js
directus.onWebSocket('open', function () {
	console.log('Connection is open');
});

directus.onWebSocket('message', function (message) {
	console.log('New message of type ' + message.type);
	console.log(message.data);
});

directus.onWebSocket('close', function () {
	console.log('Connection has closed');
});

directus.onWebSocket('error', function (error) {
	console.log('Connection has had an error');
	console.log(error);
});
```

## Next Steps

Learn more about [authenticating realtime connections](/realtime/authentication) and [how to manage subscriptions](/realtime/subscriptions).
