# Data Management

Directus can be used to manage both the data in your collections and the collection data model, which includes setting up new collections, fields, and defining relationships between them. Any changes made directly in your database will be recognized and reflected by Directus.

This guide assumes you already understand the fundamentals of relational database modeling.

## Data Modeling

Within the Data Model section of your project’s settings, all collections will be displayed.

**System Collections** are the automatically-created collections required for Directus to operate. All Directus-specific settings and data is held in these collections and never in user-created collections. This means you can effectively remove Directus if desired with no proprietary data left behind.

**User Collections** are created directly in your database or via Directus. They describe your specific data models.

### Creating Collections

View and create collections from the Data Model Settings. When you create a collection, there are a number of options:

- **Name:** your collection name. This will be used throughout the Data Studio and the Directus APIs. Once created, these cannot be changed via Directus.
- **Singleton:** bypasses the collection page and navigates directly to the single item in the collection. Useful for key value stores.
- **Primary Key Type:** the strategy for creating unique primary keys. Can be automatically-generated or manually-entered.

Additionally, Directus can create some common fields, including a status field, sort, and fields related to who and when items are created or edited.

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/settings/data-model"}

Read the Data Model Settings User Guide.

::

### Creating Fields

Fields are columns in your database, along with Directus-specific metadata about how they are shown in the editor, within layouts, and in relational fields.

When creating a field, the first thing to choose is the interface, which you can think of as the form input type. Directus has many built-in interfaces, including a WYSIWYG editor, a color picker, map, file picker, hash, and more.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

When creating a field, you will be prompted for the underlying data type, optional default value, and whether the field must be set on item creation.

From the collection page, you can set field position, size, and visibility in the Directus Editor.

#### File Uploads

When selecting an interface that supports files, you will be prompted to select a Root Folder. This is the Directus Files folder where images will be uploaded or viewed from. You may wish to customize the Root Folder, which may include first creating a new folder inside of the Files module.

#### Relationships

Directus supports all standard relationship types, as well as a few more of its own compound types, which are custom-tailored to make common but complex tasks easier.

#### Conditional Fields

Fields can be hidden and shown based on rules set in the Conditions advanced setting of a field. This allows you to only reveal fields based on the value of others.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/data-modeling/relationships"}

See the full list of available fields and interfaces available in Directus.

::

## Directus Explore

Directus Explore allows you to display and query items in a collection. Data is represented as it is stored in your database, with display templates allowing custom representation with custom inline text, image thumbnails, dates, numbers, or anything else.

<!-- TODO: PHOTO -->

### Layouts

Data can be displayed in any of the default or installed layouts, each with their own configuration options. Layouts include a table, kanban, gallery, calendar, and map. By default, archived items are not shown in layouts.

### Search & Filter

The search in Directus Explore uses all string, text, number, and UUID fields in the collection to find matching items.

The filter interface can be used for both simple and complex queries. Single filters can be added by selecting a field in the current or relational collection, picking an operator such as “equals”, “contains”, or “is greater than”, and providing a value for comparison.

If multiple queries are added, they all must be true for an item to be returned. Complex queries can be created using AND and OR groups, which can be nested.

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/explore/filters"}

Learn more about using filters in Directus Explore.

::

### Presets

Presets are saved views that contains a search, filters, sorts, visible fields, and layout information. They can be saved for all users, or specific roles/users. This allows you to create views that are more relevant to your different teams or stakeholders.

<!-- TODO: PHOTO -->

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/settings/presets"}

Learn more about using presets in Directus Explore.

::

## Directus Editor

Directus Editor allows you to display, edit, and preview items in your collections. This page also includes options for archiving, reverting, versioning, and commenting on an Item.

In the Editor, the field settings in the Data Model settings are displayed. This includes interface, position and size, validations, conditional visibility, and more.

### Live Preview

If you’re building a website, being able to preview the webpage can be useful. Live Preview configuration is made in the Data Model settings page for the the collection and requires a public Preview URL which can include values from the individual item, such as an `id` or `slug`.

Live Preview requires some implementation inside of your application, which will differ depending on your framework.

### Content Versioning

Content Versioning allows teams to create and manage different versions of their content. There are several reasons to use Content Versioning, including drafting content without publishing it, and more ways to collaborate with others.

At any point, a content version can be created and worked on in isolation. Then, when ready, a content version can be promoted to become the new main version.

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/editor/content-versioning"}

Learn more about using content versioning in Directus Editor.

::

### Revisions & Comments

Each change made on an item is stored in the revision history along with who made them. They can be reverted at any time.

Items also contain comments, which allow collaboration between users in your project.

## Translations

There are two distinct areas where Directus can be translated - within the Data Studio, and in user-created items.

### Data Studio Translations

Many parts of the Directus Data Studio are already translated into 30 languages with 70% coverage or higher. This includes all UI elements and descriptions. We support [community contributions](/community/contributing/translations) to both increase the coverage for existing languages and to support brand new languages.

When creating collections and fields, you can set translations of names which will be reflected if a user changes their language.

In any other field across Directus, for example in field notes, you can utilize translation strings, which can be set up in your project settings.

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/settings/translations"}

Learn more about using translation strings throughout the Directus Data Studio.

::

### Content Translations

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

When creating a data model, the dedicated translations interface can be selected which will create a relational collection in your data model. Add fields within the collection to be translated, and use the interface to author multilingual content.

If you think a project may support multiple languages, it’s advisable to set this up at the start of your project.

::callout{type="tutorials" url="/tutorials/content-translations-guide"}

Read our tutorial on creating content translations.

::
