---
description: Secure your data with Directus Auth and Access Control settings. Learn how to manage users, define permissions, and implement single sign-on.
---

# Access Control

Access control is a critical part of managing data - what different users in their various roles should be able to create, read, update, and delete.

**Directus Auth** along with Directus’ Access Control settings provide a complete solution for user management - from initial registration through to interacting with data held in a project.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF USER DIRECTORY -->

## Users

Inside of a Directus project, you will have one or more users. A user, conceptually, is one item in a special users collection that represents a person or a service that has access to your data.

Users may only have access to your data via your custom application, but can also be given access to data via the Data Studio.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF USER DETAIL PAGE -->

### Inviting Users

Users can be invited from the Data Studio or via API. When inviting users, a role must be immediately provided. Once an invite is created, an email is automatically sent which new users can accept to gain access to their account.

### Creating Users

Users can also be created directly from the Data Studio or via API. When creating users, you can set any fields in the collection - including name, role, and location. You can also set their password, which is automatically hashed and is not retrievable. Roles are also assignable, along with any other custom fields on the users collection.

### Authenticating

Users can log in to the Data Studio directly if their user has been given access to the App. Users can also use the Login, Logout, Refresh, and Reset Password endpoints if implemented in your application. This means Directus Auth can be used as a full user management solution for your projects.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/auth/quickstart"}

Read more about authentication with Directus Auth.

::

## Roles

Roles allow project owners to define a set of access permissions for all data in your Directus project. Any number of users can then be given the role, sharing access permissions.

Regardless of your project, you will always need an administrator role and a public role. In addition, you may need any number of custom roles.

Roles can be created in your Access Control settings, and users can be assigned a role in their user page.

<!-- TODO: Image of Access Control page -->

### Administrator Role

An administrator role provides complete, unrestricted control over the project, including the data model and all data. This cannot be limited, as by definition it would no longer be an administrator role. You need at least one user in an administrator role.

### Public Role

A public role defines access permissions for unauthenticated requests to the database. That means that if you enable an access permission for this role, everybody has that permission enabled. All public permissions are off by default. It is up to the administrators to re-configure these and define exactly what the public role has access to.

### Custom Roles

In addition to these two roles, you may need to create more roles each with their own unique set of permissions. The roles you create and the permissions you configure for them are completely open-ended and dependent on your project's needs.

## Permissions

Roles can be given specific permissions on each collection in your project, based on operation and field.

Directus allows each role to be given permission for each operation - Create, Read, Update, and Delete. Additionally, Directus has permissions for whether a user can Share data with others.

### Custom Rules

For each operation in each collection, all/none can be set as well as custom rules which use Directus’ filter syntax to specify which items can be interacted with, which can also take advantage of the dynamic `$CURRENT_USER` and `$CURRENT_ROLE` variables.

::callout{type="info" title="Example"}

Students should be able to read to their own grades, but not the grades of other students. So you could create a custom rule for the `Student` role, so that a user can only see their own grade.

::

Custom rules can also dictate which fields are affected by a permission. Certain fields can be only seen/edited by specific roles.

## Single Sign On

Single Sign-On is a mechanism which allows to use external providers to login into systems. For example, you can use your Google, Facebook, or Okta account to authenticate into systems without the need to create a new registration on those systems.

Directus supports OpenID, OAuth 2.0, LDAP, and SAML.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/auth/sso/overview"}

Read more about setting up SSO with Directus.

::
