---
description: Learn about how to use the instantly-generated REST and GraphQL APIs that Directus creates.
---

# Connecting via APIs

Part of the Data Engine is :product-link{product="connect"} - automatic REST and GraphQL APIs for your database and asset storage. The REST API has predictable resource-based URLs, relies on standard HTTP status codes, and uses JSON for input and output.

## Authentication

While the Public role can be configured to make data available without authentication, anything that is not public requires a user to authenticate their requests.

Each user can have a single Static Tokens that does not expire (though can be regenerated). Temporary and Session Tokens are returned after a user logs in, are short lived, and need refreshing.

Requests can be authenticated in the following ways:

::tabs
	::tab{label="Authorization Header"}
	Add the following header: `Authorization: Bearer <token>`
	::

	::tab{label="Session Cookies"}
	Set the following cookie: `directus_session_token=<token>`
	::

	::tab{label="Query Parameter"}
	Append the following query parameter: `?access_token=<token>`
	::
::

## Dynamic Schema

While all collections can be accessed using the Items API, which revolve around standardized resource-based URLs, the URLs and data required/provided will differ based on your project’s collections.

::callout{type="info" title="Example"}
Your project has a collection called `posts`. The Primary Key is an auto-incrementing integer called `id`. Other fields include `status`, `title`, `date_published`, and `content`. For this collection, some of the available endpoints include:

	::tabs
		::tab{label="Get Items"}
		**Request**

		GET `/items/posts`

		**Response**

		```json
		[{
			"id": 1,
			"status": "published",
			"title": "Hello World!",
			"date_published": "2024-04-08T10:18:00.000Z",
			"content": "<p>This is my first post</p>"
		}]
		```
		::

		::tab{label="Get Item by ID"}
		**Request**

		GET `/items/posts/1`

		**Response**

		```json
		{
			"id": 1,
			"status": "published",
			"title": "Hello World!",
			"date_published": "2024-04-08T10:18:00.000Z",
			"content": "<p>This is my first post</p>"
		}
		```
		::

		::tab{label="Create an Item"}
		**Request**

		POST `/items/posts/`

		```json
		{
			"id": 2,
			"title": "Hello Universe!",
			"content": "<p>This is my second post</p>"
		}
		```

		**Response**

		```json
		{
			"id": 2,
			"status": "draft",
			"title": "Hello Universe!",
			"date_published": null,
			"content": "<p>This is my second post</p>"
		}
		```
		::
	::
::

::callout{type="api-ref" url="/api-reference/items"}
Read the Items API Reference
::

## Query Parameters

Most Directus API endpoints can utilize a number of powerful query parameters to alter the data that is returned.

This includes:

- Specifying which fields are returned, including relational fields.
- Filtering the returned items using the Filter Rules syntax, including logical operators and dynamic variables such as `$CURRENT_USER`.
- Sorting, paginating, and limiting the number of returned items.
- Applying aggregate functions either on the whole data set, or on groups of data.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/connect/global-query-parameters"}
See all available global query parameters.
::

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/connect/filter-rules"}
Read more about the filter rules syntax.
::

## JavaScript SDK

The official JavaScript SDK provides an improved developer experience to users implementing Directus in their JavaScript applications.

The SDK is type-safe, separated into several modules that provide granular control over which features to include and which can be pruned at build-time, and does not require external libraries.

The SDK implements all of the API endpoints, meaning you can choose between making direct calls to the REST and GraphQL endpoints, or using the SDK.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/connect/sdk"}
Read more about the official Directus JavaScript SDK.
::
