---
description: Manage your digital assets with Directus Files with built-in media transformations for enhanced flexibility.
---

# File Management

:product-link{product="files"} aggregates all assets within the Directus Project into one consolidated library. It is a full-featured Digital Asset Management (DAM) system for storing, organizing, browsing, and transforming your various files.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - FILES MODULE -->

## File Storage

By default, Directus stores all uploaded files locally on disk. However, you can also configure Directus to use AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure Storage, Cloudinary, or Supabase.

You can also configure multiple storage adapters at the same time. This allows you to choose where files are being uploaded on a file-by-file basis.

Each file managed by Directus also corresponds to an item in the `directus_files` system collection, which provides a unique identifier with each item.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/files/storage-adapters"}
Learn more about configuring storage adapters to integrate with third-party locations.
::

### Virtual Folders

Folders in Directus Files can be used to organize assets within the platform. Folders are virtual, and aren't mirrored within the storage adapter.

As well as organization, folders can be used within Access Control settings to limit a user’s ability to create, read, update, and delete files. The full file tree can be used, so virtual folder hierarchies can reflect a user’s permission.

## File Details

Each file in your Directus project has a number of additional system fields that can be used for management. Any additional metadata Directus was able to scrape from the file will also be stored - for images, this includes Exif, IPTC, and ICC information.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - FILE IMAGE EDITOR -->

From within the file detail page, metadata can be seen and edited, including manual cropping and setting a focal point for cropping via API.

## Files API

You can consistently access files via API using the following URL structure, being sure to provide your Directus Project URL and File ID:

```
https://myawesome.directus.app/assets/<file-id>
```

### SEO Filenames

You can provide an optional filename after the ID to optimize for SEO:

```
https://myawesome.directus.app/assets/<file-id>/directus-logo.png
```

### Media Transformations

Directus provides out-of-the-box asset transformations, allowing for cropping with `width`, `height` , and `fit`. A specific `quality` and `fomat` can be requested, along with any other transformations offered by [Sharp](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/api-operation) such as blurring, flipping, and recoloring.

Transformed assets will be created once and stored, removing the need to transform them again.

Transformations can be made via URL query parameters:

```
https://myawesome.directus.app/assets/<file-id>?width=600&height=400
```

Transformations can also be stored in Directus as a Storage Asset Preset, and given a `key` , which can be used as a shortcut with a single query parameter:

```
https://myawesome.directus.app/assets/<file-id>?key=avatar
```
