---
description: Simplify your data processes with Directus Automate, utilizing customizable Flows made up of triggers and operation series for data processing and task automation.
---

# Creating Automations

:product-link{product="automate"} provides Flows, which enable custom event-driven data processing and task automation within Directus. Each flow is composed of one trigger, followed by a series of operations.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - COMPLEX FLOW -->

Flows are created within your Project Settings. While it can be configured that any user can trigger them, the configuration is for administrators only.

## Triggers

Each Flow begins with a single trigger. These include:

- Events when data is updated in your project, both before and after.
- A specific scheduled interval has passed (uses 6-point cron job syntax - timeframes from seconds to weeks).
- Incoming HTTP requests to a unique URL for the Flow (webhooks).
- Manually-triggered from Directus Explore or Directus Editor.
- Triggered by another Flow - allowing for chaining of Flows.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/automate/triggers"}
See all available triggers in Directus Automate.
::

## Data Chain

Each time a Flow is run, it has it’s own data chain, which is a JSON object passed from the trigger to each operation. Each operation will append information to the Data Chain.

There are some dynamic keys available in every data chain:

- `$trigger` contains data generated by the Flow’s trigger.
- `$accountability` contains data about who or what stated the Flow.
- `$env` contains allowed environment variables.
- `$last` contains the returned data from the previous operation whenever used.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/automate/data-chain"}
Understand how to use the data chain for complex automations.
::

## Operations

An operation will receive all data in the chain, perform some logic, and return data back to the chain. Each operation has a success and a failure resolution path - be sure to account for failed operations, especially when operations rely on specific permissions or external services.

### Making Web Requests

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - WEB REQUEST OPERATION CONFIGURATION -->

The Webhook / Request URL operation allows your Flow to make an external web request. You can select a method, URL, and set custom headers.

When an operation completes successfully, the `response` is added to the data chain.

### Data Management

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - CREATE DATA OPERATION CONFIGURATION -->

The Create, Read, Update, and Delete Data operations perform actions on item(s) from a collection and adds the result to the data chain. You may select Items by their ID or by running a query.

### Run Script

This operation lets you add a custom script using vanilla JavaScript or TypeScript.

The script will be executed securely in an isolated sandbox, which means it only has access to [JavaScript standard built-in objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects) and has no access outside of the sandbox except for sharing input and output values. This means, for example, no access to the file system, no ability to do network requests, and no support for third-party packages.

Ensure your returned value is valid JSON.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/automate/operations"}
See all available operations in Directus Automate.
::

## Debugging Flows

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - FLOWS SIDEBAR WITH EXPANDED LOGS -->

Accessible from the sidebar, logs store information for each flow execution. Each log will display information from triggers as well as each operation in the flow.

Keep in mind that if you've configured a flow to track logs, all this information is stored in the database. You may need to periodically delete this data.
