---
description: Personalize your Directus interface rich custom theming to make Directus feel a perfect part of your brand.
---

# Theming

The ability to make Directus feel like it belongs to your company or client is very important, and entirely possible thanks to the advanced custom theming options available.

## Data Studio Theme

<!-- TODO: SCREENSHOT -->

The Directus theming engine contains two customizable themes - Light Theme and Dark Theme. If default values are changed, they will be automatically mapped to the correct elements in the Data Studio, even between upgrades.

Both themes can be updated for all users (in the Settings Module), or for specific users (in the Users Module). Any valid CSS values will be accepted by the Directus Theming Engine.

### Custom Themes vs Custom CSS

Custom CSS also allows custom styles or overrides in the Data Studio.

If there are ever changes to the markup of the Data Studio, the Directus team will ensure that custom values set in themes will continue to be applied correctly.

However, the Data studio’s core code, and therefore its DOM selectors, may change in any release. These updates are not considered a breaking change. Try and use the theming engine where possible, and validate custom CSS still works after updating your Directus project.

## Public Pages

<!-- TODO: Login Page -->

The public pages of Directus are shown before a user logs in, and are related to authentication.

Within your Appearance settings, you can customize the project color, logo, and favicon. You can also pick custom images to display on the right-half of the public pages.

Public pages can also be further customized using custom CSS and theme customization.

## Custom Domains

<!-- TODO: screenshot of cloud dash -->

If you are self-hosting Directus, you are responsible for the infrastructure and can host a project on any domain.

If your project is hosted on Directus Enterprise Cloud, you can configure custom domains from your Directus Cloud Dashboard.
