---
description: Leverage Directus Realtime for instant updates to your collections, providing a real-time data management solution for your applications.
---

:product-link{product="realtime"} allows connected clients to receive events whenever changes to your collections happen. You can use all token types supported by Directus, and all requests use your configured permissions.

## When To Use Realtime

Directus Realtime can be used anytime you need to ensure data is always up-to-date in your application. Common use cases include building multi-user chat, audience participation, and any time-sensitive data transfer, like auction value, stock prices, and sports scores.

Unlike many realtime platform providers, Directus emits events once changes happen in collections. This means you can always trust that the latest version of any data is persisted and retrievable without needing to implement your own persistence logic.

## How To Connect

You can connect using a standard WebSocket connection, using GraphQL Subscriptions, or by using the Directus JavaScript SDK.

Your Directus project can be configured to allow public connections, handshake (connect and immediately auth), or strict (auth when connecting).

Once authenticated, Directus will send a message to confirm success. It will also send a periodic `ping` heartbeat can be responded to in order to keep the connection from automatically closing due to inactivity.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/realtime/authentication"}
Read more about authenticating Realtime connections.
::

## Subscribing to Changes

```js
import { createDirectus, staticToken, realtime } from '@directus/sdk'
const directus = createDirectus('your_project_url').with(staticToken('access_token')).with(realtime())

await directus.connect()

const { subscription } = await directus.subscribe('messages', {
	event: 'update',
	query: { fields: ['user', 'text'] },
	uid: ‘message-update’
})

for await (const item of subscription) {
	console.log(item)
}
```

You can begin any number of subscriptions over your Realtime connection with Directus.

Subscriptions are made on a collection-level and will, by default, receive messages whenever an item is created, updated, or deleted.

Once subscribed, the first `init` message sent in response will contain existing items in the collection, which can be used to initially populate the variable in your application used when receiving new messages.

You can specify a subscription to only receive events on specific operations, and optionally provide a UID which will be returned in all messages related to the subscription.

## Performing Operations

```js
directus.sendMessage({
	type: 'items',
	collection: 'messages',
	action: 'create',
	data: { text: 'hello-world' },
})
```

You can also execute CRUD operations over a Realtime connection. This can use useful when, for example, building a chat where the current user must both subscribe to new messages and be able to submit their own.

Directus Realtime allows connected clients to receive events whenever changes to your collections happen. You can use all token types supported by Directus, and all requests use your configured permissions.
