---
description: Directus has been built to be incredibly extensible - allowing for powerful enhancements to both the Data Engine and Studio.
---

# Extensions

Directus has been built to be incredibly extensible - both allowing for powerful enhancements to be built for single projects, and for publishing in the Directus Marketplace.

## App Extensions

### Interfaces

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Interfaces are used in Directus Editor, providing the user with ways to create and edit items through forms and other elements. For example, an interface that will apply file transformations immediately.

### Layouts

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Layouts are used in Directus Explore give you control over how multiple items inside a collection are presented. For example, a timeline view with multiple items plotted.

### Displays

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Displays are used in Directus Explore to represent single data points in new ways. For example, showing a 1-5 rating as various emojis.

### Panels

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Panels are used in Directus Insights to display or interact with data. Panels can also gather information from users through interfaces and act on them. For example, a panel to send messages to users.

### Modules

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Modules introduce a whole new level of extensibility to Directus by allowing you to add an entirely new page your Directus app from the module bar. For example, a page solely containing an integration with an external service.

### Themes

Themes allow you to create a new app design that's tailored to your brand or aesthetic. They allow configuration of colors, typography, forms, and more. They are a collection of light or dark theme customizations.

## API Extensions

### Endpoints

Endpoints allow for creating additional API endpoints on top of those provided by Directus. Endpoints are implemented as collections of Express route handlers.

### Hooks

Hooks allow for custom logic to be executed during Directus' startup, when data is changed, or on schedules. When being triggered based on data changes, they can be run either before and after the operation. This allows for logic to validate or transform data if run before.

### Operations

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

Operations are used in Directus Flows and exist in both the App and the API. On the App they gather data using a form, and on the API they execute logic before returning data.

## Extension Bundles

Bundles enable you to combine multiple extensions into a single, larger extension. They are useful when an extension comprises several related sub-extensions that should be installed together.

Bundles allow you to share dependencies among multiple extensions, significantly reducing file size, as well as installing groups of extensions that rely on each other.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/extensions/bundling"}
Read more about bundling multiple extensions together for release.
::

## Directus Marketplace

<!-- TODO: DROP IMAGE IN  -->

The Directus Marketplace provides a way for users to install extensions in their projects directly in the Data Studio. It's available in all projects, whether run on Directus Cloud or your own infrastructure.

All App Extensions can be published in the Marketplace, but API extensions must use our Sandboxed Extensions Framework, which is designed to provide robust security to your data and maintain strict control over interactions with the external environment by running extension code in an isolated sandbox.

::callout{type="dev-docs" url="/extensions/marketplace"}
Read more about publishing to the Directus Marketplace.
::
