---
description: Create powerful no-code internal dashboards with Directus Insights with flexible and extensible panels.
---

# Dashboarding Data

:product-link{product="insights"} allows rapid no-code dashboard building to display and act on data. Regardless of your use-case you will be able to setup key metrics from data held in your Directus project in just a few clicks.

Dashboards can be used for business intelligence, user progress tracking, web traffic conversions, or any other time you need to analyze data.

Each dashboard is made up of panels - building blocks to display and interact with data.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - MOCKED-UP "REAL WORLD" DASHBOARD -->

## Charts and Graphs

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - GRID OF AVAILABLE CHARTS & GRAPH SVG ICONS -->

::callout{type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/insights/panels"}
See all available panels in Directus Insights.
::

## Lists and Editing

<!-- TODO: IMAGE - INLINE EDITOR PANEL -->

The List panel allows filtering and listing of items from a specified collection. If Inline Editing is enabled, clicking an item will open a Directus editor draw, allowing users to examine each item and edit data directly from the dashboard.

## Global Variables

This Global Variable panel allows you to create a variable which is globally accessible across other panels. You can use this to do things like create a string or number to prefix other Insights Panel titles or pass it as a value into a Filter to query results.

When creating a variable a `key` is provided. The value can then be accessed in any other panel with the `{{ key }}` syntax.

### Global Relational Variables

This alternate panel allows for variables to be set by selecting one or more items from a collection. A dropdown select interface is shown which will open a Directus Explore drawer.

The returned value will be a single item ID or an array of IDs if Select Multiple Items is enabled.
