---
title: Home
description: Learn about the Directus Data Engine and Studio, when to use it, and a how it works.
---

Directus is a Composable Data Platform built to democratize data. Connect it to your database, asset storage, and external services, and immediately receive rich developer tooling (the Engine) and an intuitive and approachable web application (the Studio) to work with your data. Granular and powerful access control means users can only see, interact, and create data allowed by their role used by both the Engine and Studio.


:::box
## Data Engine

:product-link{product="connect"}: Access your data with instantly-generated REST and GraphQL APIs, or via SDK.

:product-link{product="auth"}: Everything you need to manage users in your application - roles, 2FA, SSO, and more.

:product-link{product="realtime"}: Create always-current apps with WebSocket and GraphQL Subscriptions.

:product-link{product="automate"}: Trigger custom operations from database transactions, webhooks, and schedules.

:::


:::box
## Data Studio

:product-link{product="explore"}: Browse vast datasets via custom layouts, advanced filtering, and bookmarks.

:product-link{product="editor"}: Robust content authoring to create and manage data via custom interfaces.

:product-link{product="files"}: Store, organize, and transform digital assets, all accessible via Connect.

:product-link{product="insights"}: Visualize your data within fully extensible custom dashboards.

:::

Directus is also hugely extensible through the Marketplace. Developers can author and publish extensions with Node.js and Vue, and project administrators can install them in any Directus project.

Directus does not add or change fields in your database to operate, which means you can remove it at any time.

## When To Use Directus

Directus can power any data-driven project and can be linked or removed at any time.

Build, monitor or manage any data model or app: IoT fleets, e-commerce, SaaS, business data analytics, multi-channel content, *or anything else!* If it involves data or digital assets, you can get value from Directus. With this in mind, four broad use cases do emerge:

### Backend as a Service

Tools that developers need to build success applications - autogenerated APIs, event or schedule-based automations, user management and authentication, realtime, and webhooks.

### Headless CMS

Remember, *content* is just data from a database. Manage your files and data, delivering it across websites, apps, kiosks, digital signage, or any other data-driven application.

### Internal Tool Builder

Using Directus Insights, your whole team can build custom applications. Ditch the spreadsheet and quickly build back-office apps and admin panels for customers, inventory, projects, or reporting*.*

### Data Management and Analytics

Establish a single source of truth for all data. Build no-code analytics dashboards to gain insights into company KPIs and other metrics. Coalesce previously siloed data and use Directus Automate to keep everything in sync.

## How It Works

Directus sits alongside your new or existing SQL database and an asset storage.

:directus-image{uuid="da56b1ed-e53d-4e60-9156-787e8e2e6402" alt="A diagram showing the Directus Architecture. At the bottom databases and asset storage are connected. Above the database is an abstraction for any SQL database, query engine, and automation, followed by a smart caching layer. Above the asset storage is file storage adapters, asset transformations, and an asset cache. Above both is native authentication with rule-based access, REST and GraphQL APIs, a JavaScript SDK, and WebSockets and GraphQL Subscriptions."}

### Database Abstraction

SQL flavors all come with slightly different data types and idiosyncrasies. Directus uses Database Introspection to read your database structure and create an abstraction layer to handle all the nitty-gritty details behind the scenes. This technique works seamlessly with any major SQL database.

It also lets you link Directus to your new or pre-existing database or remove it anytime, with no impact on your existing data model. That means you'll never encounter vendor lock-in.

Similarly, Directus syncs with your configured asset storage service, providing control over file assets.

### Data Engine

Once a database and asset storage are connected, the Data Engine contains logic to access, transmit, query, and transform data, including event triggers, data querying operations, and file transformations (like image cropping). After that, your data and assets get cached for efficient access.

### Access Control

Directus provides various user access methods. Choose an access token format and configure authentication as desired. Directus supports OpenID, OAuth 2.0, LDAP, and SAML SSO mechanisms.

The Access Control system allows for granular permissions to the operation and field-level. Each role can be given complete or zero access over data, or use the custom rules interface.

### REST/GraphQL APIs & Realtime

A complete set of REST and GraphQL endpoints are generated dynamically, based on your data model as well as your configured roles and associated access permissions. You can also use the [JavaScript SDK](/connect/sdk) to make working with the APIs easier.

Directus also exposes a WebSockets interface which supports both subscribing to database events (item create, update, delete), and performing CRUD operations.

### Data Studio

The Directus Data Studio is a no-code web application that brings the whole team together.

- Build your data model and manage data, content, users, and file assets.
- Create roles and permissions for your users, with granular and conditional logic.
- Design flows for task automation and data processing with a low-code GUI.

Everything you can do in the Data Studio is also possible via API, so you can provide the most appropriate interface to any user.

## Directus Principles

Throughout the design of ongoing development of Directus, we abide by the following principles:

- **Pure** — No predefined or proprietary schema. All system metadata is stored separately.
- **Open** — Directus is available to all, with no obfuscated or cloud-only code.
- **Portable** — No vendor lock-in. Your database can be exported or migrated anytime.
- **Extensible** — Every aspect of this platform is modular to avoid any hard feature ceiling.
- **Unopinionated** — Choose the stack, database, and architecture as you wish.

## Directus Cloud

Cloud architecture can be complicated and resource-intensive. Directus Cloud provides scalable, optimized storage and infrastructure, and automatic updates so you can focus on what makes your project special.

With your Directus Cloud account, you can set up teams to organize projects and billing. You'll be able to get a project running in about 90 seconds. Directus Cloud projects autoscale to improve reliability, even with unexpected peaks in traffic.

:directus-cloud

Need advanced configuration, unlimited scalability, and dedicated support? **[Contact us to check out Directus Enterprise Cloud](https://directus.io/contact).**

:partial{content="license"}
