---
description: Learn about how to create a managed Directus project or self-host with Docker or Node.js.
---

# Create a Project

There are several ways to start a new Directus project. This guide walks through the most common scenarios.

:license

## Directus Cloud

Directus Cloud provides infrastructure from the team who build Directus. Projects can be created in over 15 global deployments regions and feature autoscaling for improved availability.

1. Create and login to your [Directus Cloud account](https://directus.cloud/)

    The very first time you log in to your Directus Cloud account, you will be prompted to create a team. Each Directus Cloud Project exists within the scope of one team.

	:directus-cloud

2. Create a new project

    Once started, it should take around 90 seconds for the Cloud Project to created. During this time, a link will be sent to the email associated with your Cloud Account.

    The email will contain your Project URL as well as an email and password to login. If you used GitHub to create your account, this will be the email address associated with your GitHub account.

3. Access your new project

    Login to your new project using the URL in your email inbox or on your Directus Cloud Dashboard.

::callout{type="info", type="user-guide" url="/user-guide/cloud/quickstart"}

Read the Directus Cloud User Guide.

::

## Docker Installation

You will need Docker installed and running on your machine. You can [download it here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

::callout{type="info" title="What is Docker?"}

Docker is a developer tool that allows software-creators to distribute their work along with all dependencies and required environment settings. This means that applications can run reliably and consistently, making it the perfect way to use Directus both locally and in-production.

As soon as there are new releases of Directus, we publish them [on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/directus/directus).

::

### Quickstart

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
docker run \
-p 8055:8055 \
-e KEY=replace-with-random-value \
-e SECRET=replace-with-random-value \
directus/directus
```

The initial admin email address and password will be shown in the terminal. Directus should now be available at [http://localhost:8055](http://localhost:8055/) or [http://127.0.0.1:8055](http://127.0.0.1:8055/).

This quickstart allows you to explore Directus quickly, but lacks many features including persistence. Once you stop the Docker container from running, any changes you’ve made will be lost.

### Docker Compose

This is the recommended way to get started with Directus. Create a new empty directory on your machine called `directus`. Within this new directory, create the three empty sub-directories `database`, `uploads`, and `extensions`.

1. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file in the `directus` directory:

    ```yaml [docker-compose.yml]
    version: "3"
    services:
      directus:
        image: directus/directus:10.10.1
        ports:
          - 8055:8055
        volumes:
          - ./database:/directus/database
          - ./uploads:/directus/uploads
          - ./extensions:/directus/extensions
        environment:
          KEY: "replace-with-random-value"
          SECRET: "replace-with-random-value"
          ADMIN_EMAIL: "admin@example.com"
          ADMIN_PASSWORD: "d1r3ctu5"
          DB_CLIENT: "sqlite3"
          DB_FILENAME: "/directus/database/data.db"
          WEBSOCKETS_ENABLED: "true"
    ```

	::callout{type="info" :toggleable="true" title="Breakdown of Docker Compose File"}

	- This file defines a single Docker container that will use the specified version of the `directus/directus` image.
	- The `ports` list maps internal port `8055` is made available to our machine using the same port number, meaning we can access it from our computer's browser.
	- The`volumes` section maps internal `directus/database` and `directus/uploads` to our local file system alongside the `docker-compose.yml` - meaning data is backed up outside of Docker containers.
	- The `environment` section contains any [configuration environment variables](/configuration/overview) we wish to set.
		- `KEY` and `SECRET` are required and should be long random values. `KEY` is used for telemetry and health tracking, and `SECRET` is used to sign access tokens.
		- `ADMIN_EMAIL` and `ADMIN_PASSWORD` is the initial admin user credentials on first launch.
		- `DB_CLIENT` and `DB_FILENAME` are defining the connection to your database.
		- `WEBSOCKETS_ENABLED` is not required, but enables [Directus Realtime](/realtime/quickstart).

	::

2. Open the Terminal, navigate to your `directus` directory, and run the following command:
	```
	docker compose up
	```
	Directus should now be available at http://localhost:8055 or http://127.0.0.1:8055.

## Node.js installation

::callout{type="warning"}

While this method works and is maintained, it is not recommended. Docker removes environment-specific quirks that can lead to Directus not running properly in some contexts.

Running Directus without Docker may result in errors as a result of environment-specific characteristics. In such a case, make sure you have the required system dependencies for `isolated-vm`, `sharp`, and `argon2` installed.

::

1. Initialize a new Directus project using the CLI, being sure to replace `<project-name>` with the name you want to use for the project directory:

    ```bash
    npm init directus-project@latest <project-name>
    ```

    Follow the prompts to configure your database and create your first admin user.

2. Start your project:

    ```bash
    cd <project-name>
    npx directus start
    ```

## Deploy Directus

We also have a number of guides on deploying Directus to various cloud providers, like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform.

::callout{type="tutorials" url="/tutorials/tags/deployment"}

Check out our deployment tutorials.

::
